The last video we wrote out a little bit of code to get a simple rectangle to show up on the screen
in this video I want to go over some of the code that we wrote just a little bit more and clarify a
couple of points.
Once we get this final clarification of the way it will then start to work much more quickly on the
application that we're trying to build back inside of my index not just file.
The first thing I want to point out is where we had created that render object.
As I mentioned we provide the element property and this tells matter J.S. where we want to show are
essentially drawing of the world inside the DOM.
If we open up our element Inspector inside of our development tools we can see that this representation
the world or this drawing is a type of HDMI element called a canvas a canvas element is for lack of
a better term a canvas of sorts that we can use to draw any kind of arbitrary shape that we want.
Usually we might use some kind of third party library like canvas or something like matter J us to work
with canvas elements we can work with canvas elements directly using some browser based API.
But they are just a little bit tedious.
So usually anytime we want to use a canvas we will commonly make use of a third party library like matter
J.S. or something similar when we created the canvas we assigned a height and weight to it.
So if we ever want to change the height or the width of that canvas element we could easily modify it
right here.
So for example I could decrease the width to 400 and if I save and refresh.
Now this thing is going to be half as wide.
The first half this application we're going to just show a canvas element of a hundred by six hundred.
But if we have our final product like our actual maize show up in just that 800 by 600 frame then it's
not going to be that great because if some user tries to play our maze game on a really really big monitor
the maze is going to appear to be really really small to them.
So we're going to eventually add in some code to make sure that our canvas element spans the entire
width of the screen and the entire height as well.
So it's going to play equally as well on a small screen as a large one.
We're going to worry about that later on okay.
So back over here just a couple of more things I want to point out.
Down at the bottom we use that bodies object to create a new Rectangle when we created the rectangle.
We assign it to the variable shape and then had a second line of code to add it to the world object
just creating a shape or creating a rectangle doesn't make it show up on the screen.
So for example if I comment out the world dot add statement and then refresh well nothing appears whatsoever
so we can create as many shapes as we want but they all have to eventually be added to our world object
in order to get them to actually show up.
I want to show you something kind of interesting around that world object as well several times as we
are writing out this application.
I would encourage you on your own to open up your console and print out the world variable.
It's this world variable is the same one that we have created back right here.
While technically up here but the same one we are referring to right here.
So as I've mentioned this world variable contains a representation of all the different shapes inside
of our world if we print out the world variable we can then expand it and see that it has several different
properties.
One property in particular.
Well let me refresh sorry really quick.
I need to make sure the shape is visible.
So once the shape is very visible I'll look at world again and then look at the body's property as soon
as I do so I'll see that there's a single object inside there.
This is the object that represents this rectangle shape.
It has a lot of different properties in it that describe its physical representation in the world.
So for example it has an angular velocity which is how quickly this thing is rotating and which direction
it is rotating as well.
It also has some other properties such as position.
So that is the physical position in the world in x and y coordinates and then it also has a velocity
property that describes how quickly this thing is moving to the left or right or up and down
OK one or two more things here when we created our rectangle.
We passed in an options object of is static true.
That means that we want to show the shape and we don't want it to ever move under any circumstance.
If we remove that property and then save and refresh we'll see that the shape then falls down to the
bottom.
And every time I refresh it starts back at the same spot and falls again.
So by default gravity is enabled in our simulation.
So gravity is going to take that shape and automatically accelerate it downwards.
So it is the static is static true property right here.
That's going to make the shape stay exactly where it is.
So if I say it again now the shape stays right there.
Lastly I want to mention is some the different dimensions or values we are passing in when we are creating
the rectangle.
The first two numbers represent the position in the world do you place this rectangle at these dimensions
are measured from the top left corner to the center of the square just to make sure that's really clear
you top left corner of our canvas element is the 0 0 point of our entire world our X axes or the extraction
runs from left to right in the y axis goes up to down.
So when we say place a shape or a rectangle at two hundred two hundred.
That means start right there on the top left corner.
Go over two hundred units and then down and see me go over 200 units and down two hundred units.
And that is where the center of our rectangle should be we can verify that by trying to do the same
kind of rectangle but instead placing it at 0 0.
If we do so then I would expect to see the rectangle or the center of the rectangle based on like right
there.
So we're just going to see the bottom right corner of the triangle or seeing the rectangle now.
The final refresh.
Yep sure enough I just see the bottom right corner.
So as you would probably guess the other two numbers inside of here the 50 and 50 are how why do we
want the rectangle to be and how tall it should be.
So I can change the width to 100 and now this thing is going to be significantly wider and I can change
the height to 200 and it'll be significantly taller okay.
That's pretty much it.
That is some of the very basics of matter Jesus essentially once again everything that we wrote down
to about line 14 or so is all boilerplate code and we're not going to really change that stuff very
often in order to get some more functionality inside of our app.
We're going to be creating a variety of different shapes or rectangles or circles or whatever else and
then adding them all to our world.
That is the primary means so we get some level of functionality inside of our matter app and that's
pretty much exactly what we're going to be doing for the vast majority of our maze application as we
start to put it together.
Okay so now that we've got a better idea of what's going on.
Another quick pause and we'll start writing some our code in the next video.